Oh. Well, just the thought of going back to where he
lost so many good people. And in one of his letters
to me, in talking about it, he really admired the
bravery of all the rangers that served under him.
He said they gave their all as good soldiers
should.
And it is. So in 54, when the writer, Bill Hines,
called and asked Earl if he would go back to France,
take him, our son, and he wanted to do an article for
the 10th anniversary of D-Day. Merrill wasn't
sure at all that he could go back to where he lost all
those people. But we kept working on seeing what it
would mean to our son to be able to go there. So he
did. And then I said he was, that was in 54. And then
55, that's after he took office at the land office
at General Eisenhower, President Eisenhower.
asked him to be his representative to the 10th
anniversary of the liberation of Colmar, which
his regiment liberated. And he went back for that.
And then in 1964,
he was asked to go back for the 20th anniversary of
D-Day. And that was nice. And then in 69, British TV
did a film called Ten men went to war. And Earl was
the only one from the United States that was asked
to go for that. And he took our younger son with him
then. And he never got to see the movie. You see,
they went in fall of 69. I'm not sure his father's
been. But anyway, it was shown in England for the
25th anniversary of D-Day. And at the time they
made this film, they were negotiating with CBS to
show it over here. But that never did work out. So we
finally, after his death, see, like I say, he never
saw it. We did get a copy of the film. And what they
did for each of these 10 men, they filmed them where
something significant happened to them. in
France. And then they filmed them in what their
present day job was. So they sent four fellas over
here from the British TV company. And so they
arranged a core review and a lot of things for them
here. That'll probably be a good show for A&M, you
know. But that was 69, and as I say, he got sick in
January of 75. Well, you
were First Lady, and what exactly was your role?
Well, there was lots of entertaining, which I'm
sure has happened to all of them through the years.
One thing that we... had that we enjoyed, and I
still run into some of those fellows now, but we had
student leader meetings every month in the house.
And I never did get to sit in on the meetings. I said,
I was so good, I got to serve refreshments, then I
could disappear. So, I always wanted to know what
they had to talk about, but I never did that. Then we
entertained a lot. Contrary to some things that
have been said, we did Actually, we were the first
ones to live in the new President's House, which
was not so new anymore. We moved into that in
October of 1965,
having been the last ones to live in the old
President's House, which burned in 63. And then in
October of 65, we moved into the one I still call the
new one. They had an interesting history on how
they made it. Do you want to tell us some of the
things about making it? Well, it really did kind of
connect the generations, I guess, in a way. The
home that is there now, the Pagan's Home, built
from brick that was handmade in Hearn in the early
1890s. They built the science hall from it. And at
the time the old President's House burned, they
had already planned to tear the science hall down
and build a new building there. So they reserved
enough of that brick to build the President's
House. I had one old professor who's no longer
living came up to me one day in the grocery store. He
said, you know, it just does my heart good to look
over there at that house. I spent 40 years of my life
behind that brick. Anyway, there were so many nice
donations that were made to the building of the
house that my husband always called it the best
bargain the state of Texas had. Bob Bernath, who
was a concrete man here in town, He gave all the
concrete for all these driveways and things
around it. Fort Allbritton, who was on the board,
gave the doors and windows. And Dow Chemical, Dr.
Boyle was on the board. They gave the insulation.
And there were other donations to it. So I remember
my husband saying that it cost $60,000. And at the
time it was built, it had 6,500 square feet. So that
was a bargain by anybody's estimation. Of course,
now it's unbelievable.
It was a very livable home. And we entertained a
lot. And we had things like a statewide garden club
meeting, had East Texas Chamber of Commerce.
Didn't you put some dogwoods in the house one time?
Didn't you put some dogwood blossoms in the house
one time? That was for East Texas Chamber of
Commerce. I had visited my college roommate who
lives at Williamsburg and was riding the dogwood.
It was in full bloom and I just loved it. So I came
back with a carload of it, in water of course. And we
decorated the entire downstairs of the house with
all the wood. It was really pretty. I think it was my
favorite decoration of all the times. But see, I
love to do flowers. And I would do the flowers for
all the entertainment we did. I ordered them one
time. We first moved into the house before
anything grew back of the house.
and my
husband let me pay for it out of their household
budget, which I didn't have much in that budget
anyway. So I decided I'd better learn to arrange
flowers. I loved that. How's your role different
from Mrs. Mulberry's role? I don't really know.
I'm sure they did a lot of entertaining, too, like
we did, where she's teaching this year. And so I
guess they can't do as much. But I guess it's pretty
standard that anybody that has that position can
expect to do a lot of entertaining. And it was
always fun. We used to have faculty groups,
student groups, you name it. But through that
life, you get to meet so many interesting people.
Some of the people you've met were Lyndon Johnson
and Omar Badri. Oh, everybody from A to Z.
I'd have to stop and think a while. We've met from
kings on down. You just never know who's going to.
That's the nice thing about a university
environment. You do get to meet so many people. And
of course, we love the football.
This is an interview with Margaret Rutter by Lisa
Rush on May 5th, 1993 at Mrs. Rutter's house
concerning her life at A&M during the 60s and World
War II. In the interest of accumulating
knowledge, I am asking you to donate this tape to me
or to the Texas A&M Oral History Collection in the
University Archives. Is that alright with you?
Okay. Thank you.